Source: Hitler Youth Book: Growing Up in Hitler’s Shadow by Susan Campbell Bartoletti

The Hitler Youth is a generation of young people who devoted their energy and passion to the Hitler Youth organization, leaving a mark on world history.
They were proud to be in the Hitler Youth
Formed in 1926
Offered its members excitement, adventure, and new heroes to worship.
Hitler counted on Germany’s boys and girls
I begin with the young.
We older ones are used up…
But my magnificent youngsters!
Look at these men and boys!
What material! With them,
I can create a new world.
-Adolf Hitler
On January 30, 1933, Adolf Hitler was appointed Chancellor of Germany. Largely because of the Hitler Youth’s efforts.

Source: Holocaust Encyclopedia

By 1939, all of the other organizations were banned
The Hitler Youth (boys) and the League of German Girls (Girls) became almost mandatory.
Over 82% of eligible youth participated in these.
Jewish youths were not allowed to join and set up their own groups in the 1930s
By the end of 1933, 100,000 members; by 1937, 5.4 million members; by 1940, 7.2 million members.
The group grew so rapidly due to state encouragement and peer pressure.
In March of 1939, membership for ages 10-18 was mandatory. If not joined, they could be punished by law.
Daily activities
Boys: Military Drills, Weapons Training, Farming, Sports (mainly boxing)
Girls: Gymnastics, home cooking, sewing, nursing
Youth in illegal youth groups could be arrested or sent to concentration camps.
Hitler Youth served as soldiers, nurses, and secretaries to help the war effort. They would also prepare care packages.




Source: History.com - How the Hitler Youth turned a generation of kids into nazis

“I belonged to Adolf Hitler, body and soul” - Alfons Heck, former Hitler Youth Member.
After WW2, it took members of Hitler Youth years to step back from the indoctrination.
Some boys who refused to join the Hitler Youth created their own illegal groups.
One illegal group, the Edelweiss Pirates, attacked Hitler Youth members and worked to sabotage their activities.
The Edelweiss Pirates, containing around 5,000 members, scribbled anti-war graffiti on walls and participated in resistance.
In 1945, began pulling younger boys to the front lines. These inexperienced children were essentially recruited for suicide missions. If these children refused, they would be executed.
After the war, the Hitler Youth was disbanded
Hitler Youth was designed to indoctrinate Hitler’s ideology into the next generation.
Banning scouting sent the message of obeying or being punished. This ban also made more children join the Hitler Youth.
